
Aim : To compare impact of pertubations seen in experiments(data) and that simulated using the initial model and the completed model

The completed model recapituales experimental data much better than the initial model and this can be seen in the following figures.


####  Step 0 : Merging the WB and Bioplex data  (script : Step0_Merging_Bioplex_WBdata_NonMIDAS.R)      
Merging the WB and Bioplex data in non-MIDAS format: For generating the inpt data for modeling, (...) function form STASNet was used to merge the MIDAS format of files. For plotting the experimental data alongside the simulation results here, we merge the WB and Bioplex FC data and save the Log2FC values within the Exp_Data sub-folder within the INPUTS.

#### Step 1 : Read in Experimental and Simulation Data (script : Step1_Fetch_Exp_Sim_Data.R)       
Step 1A:    
*To get the data for comparison of Exp Data and Simulation results*
1.) Rebuild the initial and completed models for XX and XO using their mra and midas files.     
2.) Use the $simulation from the output of STASnet function plotModelAccuracy() to fetch the data generated by simulating the initial and completed models. Simulation data is saved as csv files in the OUTPUT folder.  
3.) Fetch the experimental data from table saved by merging WB and Bioplex data 
4.) All these datasets : (i)ExpData + (ii)Simulation results form the initial model + (iii)Simulation results from Completed model;  are combined together and saved as ALL_DATA.csv in the OUTPUT folder   

Step 1B :   
*To get the datapoints(treatments) per analyte that contributed maximum to the model residuals and how that changed between initial and completed models*   
1.) Use the $mismatch from the output of plotModelAccuracy function for the initial models   
2.) Use the $mismatch from the output of plotModelAccuracy function for the final/completed models   
3.) Combine the two and save as Mismatch_DATA.csv in the OUTPUT folder   

#### Step 2 : Plot Heatmaps  
*Plotting Fig 3A and 1C*
1.) Read in the experimental data and results from the simulation of initial and final models.    
2.) Create 11\*11 matrix to accomodate resulst of DMSO,10 treatments and their combinations. The lower triangle of this matrix gets data from XX and the upper triangle gets data from XO. Three such matrices are made : one each for exp data, initial model and completed model simulations.   
3.) Plot heatmaps for Fig3A and Fig1C using custom functions.    


#### Step 3 : Plot PointRange plots 
*Plotting Fig 3E*
1.) Read in ALL_DATA (ie 3 Exp replicates+ Simulation from Initial and Final Models), that was written out in Step1A above.   
2.) Subset only the Exp data from here and do two kinds of t-tests :   
(i) 2-sample t-test to compare XX and XO :    
Store the mean of XX and XO cells, pvalue of the XX & XO comparison(called XX_XO_pvalue) and also diff between the means of XX and XO(XX minus XO).    
(ii) 1-sample t-test to check how different XX and XO values are from 0(named XX_0_pvalue and XO_0_pvalue).           
3.) Save results of the t-test as a data frame(t_result_df.csv) in OUTPUT   
4.) Subset the data for each analyte and     
- filter those rows where there is significant diff between XX and XO   
- arrange the rows in descending order of XX minus XO values(absolute)   
5.) Collating the 1st row(corresponding to highest absoulte XXminusXO) from all the above analyte-wise subsets to form one df and get the treatments that have the highest XXminusXO value per analyse.   
6.) Use the function Loop_MaxDiff to plot this data 


*Plotting Fig 3C and D*  
Use Mismatch_DATA.csv saved in the OUTPUT folder   
1.) Subset mismatch data for Initial Model of XX (or XO)   
2.) Group this data by analyte and find the highest mismatch value per analyse   
3.) Get names of the treatments that had highest mismatch between Exp data and Initial XX model per analyte.   
4.) Use the Loop_MaxDiff function to generate Fig 3B (or Fig 3C)   

#### Step 4 : Plot coefficient of determination
*Plotting Fig 3B*











